~~~
title: "Cosmos Whitepaper Bounty"
slug: cosmos-whitepaper-bounty
date: 2017-02-15
author: The Cosmonauts
~~~

Out here in Cosmos land, we have been hard at work getting everything prepared
for the big fundraiser. We could not be more pleased to see that the vision for
the Internet of Blockchains has been slowly catching on in the community,  with
our research and preparation solidifying nicely as well.

Pertaining to the fundraiser, we have a sequence of announcements to make in
the coming weeks. We would love both your feedback and your assistance to
ensure that we make the fundraiser a success. Ultimately, the goal of
connecting the disparate blockchains and enabling moving money seamlessly
between them is substantial, with a number of moving parts, each of some
complexity.. Your questions and comments help us to hone our communications,
hopefully  leading to simpler, clearer explanations of all aspects of this
Cosmos that we will build together.

In [our last post](https://cosmos.network/blog/cosmos-roadmap), we wrote about the different components of the Cosmos Network
and our strategic roadmap. This week we are soliciting your input and
announcing the first of two bounties!

## Whitepaper Bounty

The Cosmos whitepaper was published last summer, and we received excellent
questions, comments, and general feedback about it. But this was rather
informal, and we did not in any way officially onboard the feedback we
received. Today that changes: Before we launch the fundraiser, we want to
invite a public review of the whitepaper, really an open line to question our
premises and our proposed solutions. We know that many of you will have
brilliant ideas that we haven’t yet heard, and we want to be certain that the
Cosmos system is not only technically and conceptually bulletproof, but
absolutely imbued with the best ideas, from the best minds!

So of course, we are especially interested in exploring the overall Cosmos
architecture; those technical or economic flaws that we might have overlooked.
But fear not, the long hours you’ll spend wearing your well-trodden thinking
cap, brooding over our oh-so-cosmic ideas shall not go unrewarded. For usable
contributions, we will give out in aggregate 5 bitcoins. We might award that
entirely to the best and most shattering contribution, or we may perhaps split
it out over several different ones. In addition, depending on how your review
affects your belief in the project, you may choose to receive your reward in
either bitcoin or in atoms!

Here are the rules and process:

  1. Though any platform for discussion may be initially used, all
     contributions must ultimately be filed formally as GitHub issues.
  1. **The repository for filing is https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos/issues and
     you should tag @jaekwon and @ebuchman.**
  1. **Please make your point as descriptive as it needs to be, but no more.  A
     summary of the concern, followed by a more broad description, is probably
     ideal.**
  1. The review begins today, Wednesday the 15th of February, and will run
     until Friday February 24th at midnight PST.

As always, if you have any questions or comments, you can find us on
[Slack](http://slack.cosmos.network),
[Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/thecosmos), and/or
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/cosmos_hq). We look forward to your contributions!

The Cosmos Team
